==TODO==

# Start reading Zobel and read for min 30 mins per day
# background on releasing
## which style of release process would you like to look at next?
## and other references to German below
# Start with a fresh latex template and move the new sections in 
## only move perfected/finish
## Flow


==To read==

# how is releasing done in different organizations
## Clean room
## How is it done traditionally?
## Fogel on releasing ch 9, full freeze vs allowing devs to continue adv and disv
# Bram 
## 1st international workshop on release engineering (RELENG 2013)
## here we see how Mozilla, netfixs, and other do releasing
#Peter
## How does releasing occur at Avaya? (Traditional)
## How about the DND

# parameters
## how long between releases
## is there a full stop on development while releasing is going on?
## Continuous release/integration ...

==Modifications==

How are developers (re-)organized to work on the system during the RP verus the DP.
# Files areas of the system worked on during DP and RP
# Developers working in the DP and RP
# Dev ownership of files during DP and RP
## Integrators in RP vs DP developers


==Basic parameters and release vs dev process==
# Release process description and 
## Describe the linux process (RQ1)

# diagram of MP and RP with branches
## DP is all the changes that are merged during MP, but can occur in parrellel to the RP 
## RP is all the incremental releases, which is essentially feature freeze.

# RQ 2 basic information about the releases
## Timeseries, showing how regular it is, number of devs during each period (Figure 3)
## Unlike projects that have irregular or long periods between releases, development and releasing goes on at the same time, so less likely to see RTR

# RQ ? How long does it take changes to make it in
## Figure 11
## Definition: A commit makes it to Torvalds either during a DP or RP ... (use daniel's name for Linus' line)
## BirdMSR?, German, Jojo (mail to commit)
## Yujuan Jiang, Bram Adams, Daniel M. Germán: Will my patch make it? and how fast?: case study on the Linux kernel. MSR 2013: 101-110
## Cohesive and Isolated Development with Branches. FASE 2012: 316-331
## The promises and perils of mining git. MSR 2009: 1-10

RQ How many files and devs are involved in the DP and RP
## Figure 7 as well as Figure 4, can do wilcox test
## Figure 2: for the periods, obviously more commits in DP than RP
### Maybe do # of commits?? (Fig 2, but needs new X axis and why is Y axis negative!!) -- Probably going to cut so don't spend much time on this
## ???Figure 5 to show that more changes (cut?) 


== similarity ==

RQ Similarity of files and devs in RP vs DP
# Do the devs in DP also work in the RP
## Similarity between devs from consectureve DP and RP (Figure TODO)
## Do the devs who write the code also do the bug fixing (releasing of the code they wrote).
# Files, so are the same files changed between two releases?
## Expect: the same files in DP to be modified in RP
## based on Jac Similarity we see that the files modified in consecutive DP and RP are similar (figure 9)
### finding: not that similar? 

== ownership ==

# RQ Do developers work in the same files during DP and RP or do they re-organize themselves and fix bugs during RP
## differentiate between integrators and developers
### Small proporation of devs who just do integration and touch many files and do many commits during RP
## Figure 10 shows that the files touched during the DP have a higher ownership percentage than in the RP
## Table 6, but the discussion of how many files devs touch and how many commits they make

# Large commits in development are not meaningful because
## What do large commits tell us?: a taxonomical study of large commits, Hindle, German

== focus ==
# files that are the same in two consecutive RPs, are likely integration type files that must always be changes ... The more RP periods a file shows up in, the more likely it is an integration file
## Figure 16
## People tend to work on the same features over time, so it's might just be that this file is under heavy development in more than one RP



